[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The holistic world of healing
includes plants and herbs
channeling energy as well as
both spiritual and physical
modalities.
Healers are
multidimensional beings
who dance between the realms
of the seen and unseen.
These individuals
have the ability
to facilitate a shift in
people, offering them insight
and support, reconnecting people
with themselves and the greater
collective, healing the
world one person at a time,
healing from the other side.
>> Welcome.
My name is Gary.
And I've been on this
journey for the last 22
years of my life.
I've been searching.
I have gone to every
nook and cranny I
could find to find
answers to deal
with my pain and my trauma.
I've done scary things.
I've done beautiful things.
I have done things that has
made me feel unbelievably
uncomfortable.
But I kept on going because
I knew that even if I just
get one answer in everything I
do, eventually, the puzzle will
be completed.
That happened for me
just over two years ago
when I did my first
psilocybin journey.
Going into the journey, the
person holding the space
for me was very clear on what it
is I came to do in my journey.
And it was the integration of
the masculine and feminine,
which I've been struggling
with all my life.
I walked around with a
hole in my solar plexus
up to that journey.
And when I came out of
that psilocybin journey,
I felt whole for the
first time in my life.
In that journey, I was also
very clearly told that this is
my work, that I cannot be scared
anymore of holding the line
and shining my light.
I have a deep innate
sense that this
has been the work I have to do.
This is the work I've
been called to do.
This is my life.
>> Psilocybin mushrooms,
commonly known as magic
mushrooms, mushrooms,
or shrooms,
are a group of fungi
that contains psilocybin,
which turns into
psilocin upon ingestion.
Mushrooms have been
used by many cultures
as what is called
a plant teacher.
People report that after
ingesting these mushrooms,
they are taken on a
journey of connection
to themselves and to nature.
The dosage dictates
how deep the journeyer
goes on their inward journey.
Some experience a connection
to something much greater
than themselves and
find powerful shift
and transformation
in their process.
>> My name is Reinhart,
otherwise lovingly known
as Ray.
I am a creative.
I'm a Reiki master.
I am psychic.
And I am super,
super, super excited
for my guided journey with Gary.
And I won't lie.
It's been a bit of a rough
road for me this week.
I'm having to go
through the cleanse that
was my homework from Gary.
I basically needed to
sacrifice in order to cleanse,
and that entailed needing
to give up meat, caffeine,
and a few other things.
>> How am I normally connect
with the person journeying?
The person will contact me.
In the first call,
like, in this instance,
when I spoke to
Reinhart, we make
a connection, the two of us.
In that first interaction
is where we already
start feeling each other out.
Am I the right person
to hold this person?
And am I the right
person for this person
to come journey with?
It's a contract that
our souls go into.
I'll then set up
a few days later.
I call.
It's normally one week
before the journey.
And I will go through
a very extensive
medical questionnaire.
I need to know all the
mind-altering substances
they've taken, why they've
taken it because there are very
concrete things that the
psilocybin cannot work with,
psychiatric medication being
at the top of that list.
At the end of the medical
and the questionnaire,
I will give the
person the guidelines.
Not the rules, just
the guidelines.
>> Through this process
of working with Gary,
he had to ask the plant teacher
to approve of whether I was
worthy of going
through this process.
And the beauty of it was
obviously that I am worthy.
So one of the messages that Gary
gave to me through the plant
teacher is that I am
a natural light worker
and that I have
very high energies
and that it is something
that he is looking forward
to working through with me.
>> Every little bit of
information I can get sets up
the journey already.
So, for me, the
psilocybin starts
working the minute
that person phones me.
I will request
that the person not
have meat for the week
leading up to the journey,
not have caffeine, or anything
that overstimulates the body.
And then three days
before the journey starts,
I will ask them to not have any
sexual release because we carry
so much energy in our
root sexual chakra
that whenever we hit a wall
or something uncomfortable,
that's normally the easiest
way to get rid of the tension.
>> Two months ago,
my doggy passed.
He was my child, my everything.
Yeah, the one thing
that I do hope
that I experience
in this journey
is actually connecting with him.
This last year has been rather
rough for me personally.
Due to the coronavirus
pandemic, I
was unemployed for eight months.
I basically lost everything.
I needed to start over.
But I am fortunately
back on my feet.
And that, I think, is
everything at this stage.
This eight-month process of
unemployment, six-month process
of admitting that
I really would like
to go on a guided psilocybin
journey, and the fact
that I was then
approached and had
to go through this beautiful
process of cleansing,
acceptance, self-acceptance,
and then being
accepted as one of the
participants in the psilocybin
journey is an absolute honor.
And I'm so looking
forward to it.
>> I will request that on
the day of their journey,
they have a very light
breakfast because the more empty
the tummy is, the deeper and the
faster the medicine will work.
The person arrives.
We will do a smudging.
I will smudge the person just
to clear the energy fields.
I will calibrate the
chakras with Tibetan bells.
I will ask the
journeyer to draw a card
just so that we can see
what spirit and the medicine
wants to work with.
I will then ask the
journeyer, have they
got an intention
for their journey?
And we'll just see how
it all fits in together.
When that's done, we go into
the birth-to-seven process.
And I ask the journeyer
to tell me everything
that they remember
from birth to seven.
That's rattling the cage.
It's just getting
all the sediment
that's been stuck at the
bottom of the dam for so long.
All I'm doing is, I'm
just stirring the water
so that that sediment can
start rising to the top,
so that when the medicine
works, the medicine doesn't have
to unblock all of that first.
Then we're going
to the forgiveness
part of the process.
I will ask them to write
a letter of forgiveness
to their mother.
The same will go for the
letter to the father.
And when that is
done, I say to them,
you have one more
letter to write.
It's the letter of
forgiveness to the self.
Once that is done, we
burn all the letters.
Nobody reads the letter.
And in the process of
burning the letter,
it transmutes all that
energy, and the smoke
takes it up into the light.
We then will move into
the ceremony space.
And before we do that, I
smudge the journeyer again
because I don't want
the energy with which we
work downstairs to be taken
into my journey space.
I ask the journeyer to
light the ceremony candles.
And then I will open the space
with an American-Indian prayer
in all the directions.
And we call the energy and
spirits in every direction.
The direction of the lover.
Welcome the energy
of new beginnings,
of connection with beauty,
and the richness of the world.
While we're doing that, I call
my spirit guides and the people
who hold me in this work.
We sit down opposite each other.
And I ask the
journeyer if they're
ready for the actual
journey to start.
I will get my
container of water,
and I wash the journeyer's
feet to prepare
them to walk on holy
ground because that's
what they do when they're
in the psilocybin journey.
Once I've washed the
feet, I do the bowing.
I sit on the ground in front
of the person journeying,
and I bow to the
person journeying.
I bow to their mother.
I bow to their father.
And I bow to all
their ancestors.
And I call all their
ancestors who're
willing to work with the
light to come into the room
and hold the person journeying
while they're on their journey.
When that is complete,
I ask the journeyer
to lie on the bed
with an eye mask.
And I play a guided
meditation on forgiveness.
When the meditation is complete,
I play very deep cello music.
And I run an Epsom salt
bath for the journeyer.
I will slowly help them to the
bath, give them their privacy,
and they will
submerge themselves
in the bath for 20 minutes.
This is to open the
arteries with the heat.
And the Epsom salt and the
heat takes the lactic acid out
of the muscles.
And it also just
puts the journeyer
in a total relaxed
state so that when
they take the sacrament and
the medicine starts working,
the resistance and the
fight against it is less.
They will come out of the bath.
And I will have set
up the sacrament.
I normally give
between 2 and 5 grams.
Once we have both
drunk the sacrament,
again ask the journeyer
to go lie down on the bed
and put the eye mask on.
The journey is for
four hours, and they'll
know that the journey is
over when the music stops.
And the person journeying
starts the process
between them, their
creator, and the medicine.
And at the end of
the four hours,
I normally have the person
who's coming to collect
them waiting downstairs for me.
I will ask the journeyer
just to be in that space
and in silence for a bit.
And then I take the
loved one up to them
just to be held in love
in that space they're in.
And that is my process.
Not every person who does this
work journeys the same way.
That's their process.
And I honor everyone
doing this work.
Processing work in
the start, I felt
he was very open and
very willing to go
to places that maybe was not
that comfortable for him.
In the birth-to-seven process,
a lot of childhood memories
came back, most of them
beautiful, some of them
uncomfortable.
And it was really interesting.
It really felt that yesterday
with myself and Reinhart,
our two eight-year-old
boys were in communication
with each other.
And it was a meeting
of the two boys.
And something very
playful came out of that.
>> My psilocybin journey
with Gary was intense to say
the very least.
And this entire process, I
completely underestimated.
And I knew I was
ready from the get-go.
But I didn't realize just
how intense, just how
emotionally gripping or
releasing this entire journey
would be.
>> When we went into
the actual journey,
there was an unbelievable
release of energy to the point
that I kept on finding ways
just to cool Reinhart down
because his body temperature
shot up tremendously.
>> While I was under with
Gary in the very beginning,
I experienced somewhat of an
awakening, one would call it.
I had a sort of eye mask on.
And I could see clear white
lights radiating from obviously
my internal being.
And that, for me, gave
me the realization
that I had just been
taken back to birth.
To try and put into words what
I saw, what I experienced,
exactly how I felt is
very, very, very difficult.
If I had to try and articulate
and put it into a few words,
I would try to describe it
as releasing, forgiving,
awe-inspiring, awakening, and
just absolutely beautiful.
>> There were challenging
parts throughout the journey
throughout the day
for me personally.
And the challenge
was my relationship
of having to always
prove my worth
in the past and my relationship
with how do I stand in my truth
but also be in a place of
needing external validation all
the time.
And I had to come face to face
with that at numerous spots
throughout the day yesterday.
>> Gary is absolutely amazing.
I understand that
he as well as myself
are purely channels that
experienced this body
journey because we're
all souls and we're
all interconnected
and interlinked.
So through this process,
I have obviously
connected with Gary through
Gary and whoever he uses
within the spiritual realm.
And I rediscovered that
my great grandfather
on my dad's side,
Theodore Rozenkranz,
is actually my guide.
And he's that little
inner voice that I hear.
He's my gut feeling, which
is actually quite special.
I have never met him.
I had never met him.
But it was actually
quite special.
He came to me.
We had a whole deep,
intense conversation.
My dog that passed
two months ago,
he was 17 and 1/2,
a Cocker Spaniel.
And he came to me
in the journey.
I don't want to get
emotional, but it
is quite an emotional thing
that I have been through.
And it has been
absolutely enlightening.
>> It's a dance between me and
the person journeying and even
down to the dosage.
So yesterday with
Reinhart's journey,
he very gracefully accepted
that he trusts the medicine.
And for his journey, the
medicine said 3 grams.
That's the sacrament
he accepted and took.
And in my being, I
know that he got more
than he thought he
was going to get.
Yeah, I find this
dance very interesting
because I want to honor
Reinhart's journey as much as I
can, but I'm also very aware
that the agreement I had
was to share that journey.
And the thing that keeps
on coming up as I'm talking
is, you made him a promise,
you made him a promise.
So I'm just putting
that to one side
and just clearing
the space that I'm
aware that I have his
permission to share what
I need to share of the journey.
The energy in the room
was palpable for me.
And the way the medicine
worked with Reinhart yesterday
because he is so
open energetically
was, it really worked with heat.
And the heat that was coming
out of Reinhart yesterday was--
awe-inspiring is the
word that comes to mind.
And I was in awe of the medicine
and the power of the medicine
and my blind faith
in the medicine.
I didn't know what's going
to happen in the journey.
When we walk into that room,
we walk in it together,
and we walk next to each other.
I'm not leading him.
He's not leading me.
But we walk that
journey together.
>> So my doggy, my child.
Part of the
forgiveness process was
needing to forgive myself
for the necessity of needing
to work to generate an income.
And obviously, through that, I
couldn't spend the quality time
that I wanted to with him.
But due to the
pandemic, I got to spend
eight months of absolute
quality time with him.
And he came to me, and he
said that I forgive you.
So in turn, that allowed
me to forgive myself.
>> There was a very deep dance
within Reinhart of expressing
deep-felt emotions and
expressing deep-held trauma.
And the medicine
working as the medicine
does, at the end of the
journey, the breakthrough came.
>> I won't lie.
When my friend came and
fetched me from the journey,
I felt and presumably
looked like a newborn baby.
I had to learn to speak.
I had to learn to walk and
stand and talk and move.
I had to virtually, in a couple
of seconds less than a minute,
rediscover myself because
that is how fresh and how
invigorating and how beautiful
this entire process was
in the sense of needing
to release the past,
to forgive myself,
and in the sense of accepting
what is and what will be.
[MUSIC PLAYING]